The adrenal glands are located
on top of the kidneys.
They are about 3 inches long
and shaped like triangles.
The adrenal glands release different
classes of hormones that control
many of your body’s functions.
When confronted by stress,
the brain stimulates the adrenal glands
to release hormones to help you cope.
The outer portion of the gland,
known as the cortex, produces cortisol.
Effects of increased cortisol include
heightened memory and a burst of energy.
The center portion, known as the medulla,
produces epinephrine and norepinephrine,
also known as adrenaline and noradrenaline.
Effects of these hormones include
increased heart rate and dilation of the pupils.
The hormones produced by the adrenal glands
also help to control blood pressure,
sweating, and other activities regulated
by the sympathetic nervous system
in response to stress.